# Day 3 - Splunk Basics - Did you SIEM?
## Overview
Day 3 consisted of a blue team-centered task. I was tasked with ingesting and interpreting custom log data using Splunk. Day 3 was a great introduction to using Search Processing Language (SPL) to filter down results and discover and identify necessary information about an attack on the TBFC's servers.
## Objective and What I Did
I began by exploring the log data, beginning with the general search query: ````index=main sourcetype=web_traffic````. After this, I began tailoring the results for more specific finds. Checking for anomalies in log data, such as large numbers of specific logs, such as "Automated SQL Injection." After heading over to client_ip to examine the IP address of the clients accessing the server, this allowed me to narrow my search down specifically to the anomaly. I check the attack chain, beginning with their recon, then enumeration, and finally their SQL Injection Attack (In which I found an attack string: ````SLEEP(5)````, which is often used to test if the web application is susceptible to the SQL Injection attack). I also found exfiltration attempts in the logs, where the attacker used tools like ````curl````, ````zgrab````, and more to pull large chunks of compressed log files. Finally, through further filtering, I found that the attacker had conducted a successful webshell, gaining full control over the web server, after which I found the volume of data exfiltrated using the compromised server IP. 
## Key Takeaways
Logs are essential to all information security. When it's the case that we have an event, the first step to combating it is often checking logs, because this allows us to know who did what, when, where, and sometimes why; and these factors are pivotal in opposing the threat at hand. Specifically, Day 3's task allowed us to track down every facet of the attack on the web server.
